Readme.md, before:

This project is created to demonstrate how to create shared libraries in different languages and use them from Ruby

<pre><samp>
vladimir@np940x5n:~/ffie$ rake > /dev/null 2>&1 && pipenv run bundle exec ./rubie.rb && pipenv run ./pythonie.py
Hello from Rust!
Hello from Crystal!
Hello from Go!
Hello from C!
Hello from C++!
Hello from Julia!
Hello from Zig!
Hello from D!
Hello from Swift!
Hello from Haskell!
Hello from LLVM!
Hello from RubyLLVM!
Hello from Ruby!
Hello from Python!
Hello from Rust!
Hello from Crystal!
Hello from Go!
Hello from C!
Hello from C++!
Hello from Julia!
Hello from Zig!
Hello from D!
Hello from Swift!
Hello from Haskell!
Hello from LLVM!
Hello from Python!
</samp><pre>
<div align="center">
    <img src="Readme.svg" alt="teminal output">
</div>


# Tools

## C, C++

cmake version 3.22.1

```bash
$ sudo apt install cmake=3.22.1-1ubuntu1.22.04.2
```

## Crystal

```bash
$ mise use crystal@1.11.2
```

## D

```bash
$ sudo apt install dub='1.27.0-2' ldc='1:1.28.0-1ubuntu1'
```

or

```zsh
brew install dub ldc # versions dub 1.38.1 and ldc 1.39.0
```

## Ruby, LLVM

```bash
linuxbrew install llvm@15
```

or

```zsh
brew install llvm@15
```

```bash
$ mise use ruby@2.7.8
$ gem install bundler -v 2.4.2
```

## Go

```bash
$ mise use go@1.20.4
```

## Haskell

```bash
$ mise use haskell@9.8.1 # was 9.2.8, had to upgrade
```

## Julia

```bash
$ mise use julia@1.10.4 # was 1.8.5
```

## Python

```bash
$ mise use python@3.10.12
$ pip install pipenv==2023.10.3
```

## Rust

```bash
$ mise use rust@1.72.1
```

## Swift

```bash
linuxbrew install swift # 5.10
```

## Zig

```bash
# todo: migrate to latest zig and its own package manager
$ mise use zig@0.10.1
# gyro https://github.com/mattnite/gyro/releases
```

## Nim

```
$ mise use nim@2.0.2
```

Commit message:

Ref, update deps management instructions, fix build tasks

Readme.md, after:

This project is created to demonstrate how to create shared libraries in different languages and use them from Ruby and Python

<pre><samp>
vladimir@np940x5n:~/ffie$ bundle exec rake > /dev/null 2>&1 && pipenv run bundle exec ./rubie.rb && pipenv run ./pythonie.py
Hello from Rust!
Hello from Crystal!
Hello from Go!
Hello from C!
Hello from C++!
Hello from Julia!
Hello from Zig!
Hello from D!
Hello from Swift!
Hello from Haskell!
Hello from LLVM!
Hello from RubyLLVM!
Hello from Ruby!
Hello from Python!
Hello from Rust!
Hello from Crystal!
Hello from Go!
Hello from C!
Hello from C++!
Hello from Julia!
Hello from Zig!
Hello from D!
Hello from Swift!
Hello from Haskell!
Hello from LLVM!
Hello from Python!
</samp><pre>
<div align="center">
    <img src="Readme.svg" alt="teminal output">
</div>

You can use `poetry` instead of `pipenv`.

You can use `pipenv run inv` or `poetry run inv` or `poetry run poe build` instead of `bundle exec rake`. All these commands use [`tasks.py`](/tasks.py) for [Invoke](https://www.pyinvoke.org/) - and [Poe the Poet](https://poethepoet.natn.io/index.html), configured in the `[tool.poe.tasks]` section of the [`pyproject.toml`](/pyproject.toml) for the last one - instead of Rake and [`Rakefile`](/Rakefile).

# Installation

## C, C++

cmake version 3.22.1

```bash
$ sudo apt install cmake=3.22.1-1ubuntu1.22.04.2
```

## Crystal

```bash
$ mise use crystal@1.11.2
```

## D

```bash
$ sudo apt install dub='1.27.0-2' ldc='1:1.28.0-1ubuntu1'
```

or

```zsh
brew install dub ldc # versions dub 1.38.1 and ldc 1.39.0
```

## Ruby, LLVM

```bash
linuxbrew install llvm@15
```

or

```zsh
brew install llvm@15
```

```bash
$ mise use ruby@2.7.8
$ gem install bundler -v 2.4.2 && bundle install
```

## Go

```bash
$ mise use go@1.20.4
```

## Haskell

```bash
$ mise use haskell@9.8.1 # was 9.2.8, had to upgrade
```

## Julia

```bash
$ mise use julia@1.10.4 # was 1.8.5
```

## Python

```bash
$ mise use python@3.10.12
# use pipenv or poetry
$ mise use pipenv@2023.10.3 && pipenv install --dev
# or
$ mise use poetry@1.5.1 && poetry install
```

## Rust

```bash
$ mise use rust@1.72.1
```

## Swift

```bash
linuxbrew install swift # 5.10
```

## Zig

```bash
# todo: migrate to latest zig and its own package manager
$ mise use zig@0.10.1
# gyro https://github.com/mattnite/gyro/releases
```

## Nim

```
$ mise use nim@2.0.2
```
